# The-Galaxy-Simulator-Code-
The galaxy simulator code will calculate the probability of detection for any number of civilizations and radio bubble sizes, and then generate a graphical model of the galaxy. When a bubble the size of our current emissions bubble is used, it will post and annotate our bubble in red, in the approximate location of our solar system. 
Given the enormous uncertainty in the inputs and the use of simplifying assumptions, you’re not looking for accuracy here. What you’re looking for is directionality. Should we (or anyone like us) expect to detect another civilization that isn’t actively trying to contact us? Based on Figure 10-15, probably not.
With our current technology, we could detect emissions from a civilization as far away as 16 LY, which equates to a 32 LY diameter radio bubble. Even if the galaxy is filled with 15.6 million advanced civilizations, as predicted by the updated Drake equation in the Wikipedia article, the chance of detecting 32 LY radio bubbles is less than 4 percent! Take another look at Figure 10-14, and you can begin to appreciate the sheer enormity and emptiness of our galaxy. Astronomers even have a word for this: Laniakea, Hawaiian for “immeasurable heaven.” Earth is, as Carl Sagan described it, just a “mote of dust, suspended in a sunbeam.” And recent studies suggest that the window of opportunity for detecting civilizations with radio waves is much smaller than we thought. If other civilizations follow our lead and switch to digital signals and satellite communications, then their incidental radio leakage will drop by at least a factor of four. We all become unintentionally stealthy, blooming for a hundred years or so, then fading away. Given these facts, it’s not surprising that the government no longer funds the search for extraterrestrial intelligence using radio telescopes.
These days, efforts are shifting to optical methods that look for signature gases in the atmospheres of exoplanets, such as the waste products of life and industrial activity.
